Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni. Greetings to
all esteemed Dharma friends. Dear
Dharma friends, during this week of meditation practice commemorating the
Buddha's passing into Nirvana, we have
together contemplated and practiced
through two topics: remembering the compassionate mind
through the Buddha's last meal, and meditating
on the Buddha's last teachings.
Today, I, Tâm Chiếu Hoàn Quán, would like to continue
sharing with you, esteemed Dharma friends, so that we may
have more topics for contemplation and reflection on the
event of the Buddha's passing into Nirvana.
Dear Dharma friends, if the Buddha's passing into Nirvana leaves
behind relics,
what benefit do these relics bring to sentient beings? Tâm Chiếu Hoàn
Quán would like to
read
a small excerpt from the
Southern Buddhist scriptures, the Long Discourses,
volume 2, translated by Venerable Thích Minh
Châu,
page 150, chapter of the
Mahaparinirvana Sutra:
Ananda, for what reason is it that the Tathagata, the worthy one, the all-knowing one, is worthy to
build
this stupa? Ananda, the hearts of the people will rejoice
when they think of this as the stupa of the World Honored One, the worthy one, the all-knowing one. Because of
such joyful hearts, when the body perishes and life ends, sentient beings
will be reborn.  Ascending to the Pure Land of the Devas,
Ananda, for this reason, the Tathagata, the worthy one,
avoids transformation and is worthy of
building a stupa. Dear fellow practitioners, when the
Buddha passed away, he left behind relics, and
someone built a stupa to enshrine the Buddha's relics. Anyone
who,
with a joyful heart,
thinks, "This is the stupa of the
World Honored One, the worthy one, avoids transformation," just thinking like that, will receive immeasurable merit. Because of such a joyful heart, when the body perishes and life ends, they will be reborn in the Pure Land of the Devas.
Just thinking like that, with such a joyful heart,
at Ba Vang Pagoda there is a stupa
enshrining the Buddha's relics. Dear fellow practitioners, when we
come to the pagoda to practice, let us rejoice, "
This is the stupa enshrining the Buddha's relics, this is the stupa
enshrining the World Honored One."
Just one joyful thought brings
merit, and we will be
reborn in the Devas. Later, being
reborn in the Devas brings much merit. And for those who are reborn in the
Devas, their karma will naturally be
transformed. So when we have
such thoughts, when we clasp our hands and
bow, our karma will naturally be
transformed. Those with
heavy karma...  A small number of people will be able to change their karma,
while a larger number will, but they will
have their karma transformed. Only after changing karma can one be
reborn in the heavenly realms after death.
Without changing karma, how can one be reborn
in the earthly realms? Therefore, we must contemplate cause and effect as taught by the Buddha. We praise those worthy of praise who have the karmic cause to be reborn in this world. Continuing on, this merit is very great. The Buddha taught in the Lion's Roar Sutra that
whether we offer to the Tathagata now or to relics in the future, the
accumulated merit is
equal, and the harvest is equal. That is,
while the Buddha is still alive, we come to offer to the
Buddha. We are people who have the
karmic affinity to be born at the same time as the Buddha.
Now, we can't offer to the Buddha
because the Buddha's physical body has
passed away. However, He said that
offering to relics yields
equal merit. So
what do we offer for? We offer to
build stupas to enshrine relics,
offer the necessary items for the
stupas containing relics, and offer
incense and flowers.
Our club is also working on the relics of the Buddha.  We will make offerings to the
stupa containing the Buddha's relics,
and we
will announce the amount of pure funds after
we obtain the stupa to
hold the relics. All Buddhists in
our Golden Chrysanthemum Club will
receive at least 500 to 1000
dong. Participation,
effort, and joyful participation are all
considered offerings to the
Buddha.
This is what the Buddha taught in the treatise on the
position of the Buddha.
Even if the Buddha's relics are as small as a mustard seed, offering them brings
immeasurable merit.
We must make offerings in the state of
enlightenment, dear fellow practitioners. What does it mean to make
offerings in the state of enlightenment? It
is our Buddha, whose
boundless compassion
has
benefited sentient beings for countless lifetimes. Even in his last lifetime,
he abandoned all
personal happiness to seek
the truth, enduring six years of
arduous ascetic practice before finally finding it.
After abandoning asceticism and returning to the Middle
Way, he
used his own flesh and blood for
the sake of sentient beings. Therefore,
his compassion is immeasurable.  The relics have been
condensed into relics,
dear fellow practitioners. When we contemplate the
relics and pay homage to the
stupa, we
must know that His compassion has been
condensed into relics. His compassion will last
forever,
now and in the future,
for the sake of all sentient beings.
This compassion continues to exist, bringing
us blessings through our homage. His
compassion and pity for sentient beings,
wishing for their liberation from suffering, is why
His bones and
flesh, after His
passing, have condensed into relics,
continuing to bring happiness to
us.
Dear fellow practitioners, in the Golden Light Sutra,
the Buddha taught about the blessings of venerating and offering to the Buddha's relics. The
Buddha's relics are the physical body of the Buddha,
crystallized from the merits of the Paramitas,
symbolizing all the
noble virtues of the enlightened one. The Buddha's relics are the
supreme field of merit in the world.
Dear fellow practitioners,
our Golden Chrysanthemum Club is also practicing the
Paramitas. What is the practice of Paramitas? It is the
practice of merits.  The
practice of egolessness, where there is no self,
no "mine," is for the sake of attaining
Supreme Enlightenment for the benefit of all beings,
not for the sake of one's own name
or possession.
Therefore, we are practicing the perfections of generosity, morality, diligence, patience, and meditation.
We are
practicing the six perfections through the practice of Bodhicitta, the
practice of the six Dharma principles of harmony and respect at the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club.
We have only practiced a little, just
a little,
but we have already seen that sometimes we
lack diligence. From
our practice, we can
relate to the
merits of the Buddha
from countless eons ago until now.
We can see the compassion of the
Buddha. So,
dear fellow practitioners, when we sit in meditation,
we should
contemplate
how difficult our practice is. It is very difficult to
overcome all obstacles from
family, from friends,
from desires—how difficult it is, from beginningless eons ago, from
countless eons ago.  Before, the Buddha
also practiced from the beginning in the same way. He
overcame obstacles for countless lifetimes, and
for the benefit of sentient beings, he
attained Supreme Enlightenment.
Therefore, we should remember his virtues and merits.
Through our sincere practice, we
remember his virtues and merits, and then
we remember his compassion.
From practicing those merits, after
his passing, he left behind relics.
Whoever venerates these relics receives immeasurable blessings. Venerable, you are
venerating his Paramitas. It's
not just about venerating the
relics themselves; not everyone who venerates with
clasped hands receives
immeasurable blessings. We must venerate with
enlightenment, dear fellow practitioners, to receive
immeasurable blessings. Those who only
venerate with a respectful heart also receive
blessings, but less. We already have
this enlightenment, and with the
merit of Bodhi, we vow to be as
diligent as the Buddha, venerating with the
hope that we will strive diligently.
Attaining Buddhahood brings immeasurable blessings.
These blessings are numerous and create
auspicious conditions for us to continue
practicing the Bodhisattva path. Therefore, all
Buddhists in our Golden Chrysanthemum Club,
when returning to the temple for practice, should pay homage and make offerings
at the Buddha's relic stupa.
When we pay homage, we should calm our
minds. Because we have the time and merit of
this meditation, we should focus on contemplating the
Buddha's virtues and paramitas,
on his compassion that has accumulated
in the relics
we see and venerate.
Therefore, the
Buddha's relics are
extremely
precious and auspicious for all
those who are enlightened, those who venerate,
those who pay homage, and those who make offerings.
Our Buddhist followers are
incredibly blessed.
Because we have this opportunity to practice,
we contemplate the Buddha's virtues and compassion, and
through this meditation, each time we
clasp our hands and pay homage to
his relics.  Paying homage to the stupa containing the relics of our Buddha
will give us a
feeling of reverence and a
very noble vow that will
benefit us in the future.
Each person, with their own level of practice,
will experience
different mental states during this homage. If someone
deeply contemplates and practices meditation, when they
clasp their hands in homage, they will experience a profound and
serene emotional state, a very high level of purity
arising from reverence and
gratitude. Some
people
may even change after this homage,
becoming a different person; their
karmic obstacles will be instantly eliminated.
This is due to the
depth and duration of their meditation practice. During
this week of meditation, we will continue to meditate
on the Buddha's virtues.
From countless eons to this lifetime, he preached the
Dharma, even before entering Nirvana, and even after
entering Nirvana, he still
cultivated fields of merit for sentient beings, still worked for their
happiness, and still sought their liberation from suffering.
His compassion is so great that
we should contemplate it.  In this way,
we contemplate our compassion and see if
we are still lazy, selfish, competitive, envious, or
malicious. Let us meditate and
cultivate a sense of shame and remorse.
This sense of shame and remorse will generate the energy to diligently
practice compassion. Later,
we will continue to contemplate and
develop thoughts and ideas that
encourage us to be diligent in compassion.
Here, we will obtain the source of
happiness: the mind leads all things.
If, with a pure mind,
peace follows like a shadow,
then through meditation, we will
obtain this supreme karmic connection.
We will purify ourselves
and eliminate the
previous thoughts that caused us harm.
If, in the present moment, there is any defilement
in our relationships, from
society to fellow practitioners, then
in
this meditation, we will purify
it, let go of it, and eliminate it.
That feeling of shame is the beneficial result of
meditative contemplation, remembering the
day the Buddha entered Nirvana. When
you, dear fellow practitioners, come to the temple,
we
should also pay
homage to the relics of the Buddha and the relics of the saints
in the relic stupa. We should
always aspire to have
sufficient karmic conditions to always be able to make offerings and
build a relic stupa for the Buddha,
wishing that all sentient beings may
pay homage to the
relics of the Buddha. Paying homage to the relic
stupa of the Buddha
brings happiness to all beings.
This is the result of our meditation
practice this week.
I wish you, dear fellow practitioners, peace and diligence, and
a good result in this
week of practice remembering the day the Buddha entered Nirvana.
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni
[music]